So in this video we will be talking about the font chooser class which will be creating and this will
help us to choose different fonts, its type and its size over the text area on which we will be.
There will be some content and it will change the font for that particular content or the sequence of
characters which we have written over the text area.
So let's start this.
It is this class is defined inside the package and we have imported the Java IO class package for this
class and we have checked for the import java.
JWT also imported.
This will help us to create graphical user interface.
And in both our event, which will help us to handle events over the buttons.
And then we have imported Java X-Wing, which is a modified version of the package, and then we have
imported Java exports with an event.
After that.
What we did is we have defined our class font demo, which is extending the frame.
So inside this font user class, we have also defined a font demo.
Now what we are doing inside the font demo is we have defined font user object as null.
First we have defined its object as null.
Then what we are doing is we have defined the text availability.
After that, what we are doing is a defined edge button off named as font button.
Now inside the font demo class we have created a font demo non parameterized constructor inside which
we have headed as labeled as font.
And after that there is a we have defined the text area.
Is equal to new huge area of this size seven comma 20.
So that will initialize the text area to our frame.
After that, we have set font button with the new J button and it will be labeled as set font.
So this button will be used to move us to the dialog box, which will help us to change the font style,
size and type.
After that, we have defined action listener as equals to new action listener, and inside this we have
defined the action performed event which is taking an action event object as e v and after that we have
inside the action performed method.
We have defined the if statement inside which if dialog is equals to null.
So dialog is what the font chooses object.
So if that is null.
What we are doing is we are initializing the dialog as equals to new font users.
So we will make now calling the class phone user and pass the argument as to get font.
So we have passed the argument to the constructor of the font user class with the to get font method
and stored in the dialog variable.
Now if the dialog dots show dialogue font demo and choose font.
So if this will be true, so what we will be doing is we will be calling font demo dot this dot text
area variable dot set font is also dialog dialog dot create font.
So this will call the create font method of over the dialog.
So that will be changing the font style of that text area inside the class.
After that, we have closed our class.
Or action is not method.
And after that we have defined here font button dot action listener.
So we have added action listener to our font button with the argument.
AC Because we have created an instance of the action listener.
AC.
After that, what we are doing is we are adding the text area with the border layout as center to our
frame.
Then we have added the font button with the border layout south to our frame.
And set the default close operation.
So whenever the window will be closed, it will conclude over this class and close the operations in
this class.
After that, we have defined the bound for the frame, which will be 50 over 50 its location and 400
cross 400 will be its size, not text, area DOT opined.
Is now inside the text.
Here we are, inserting the values.
So this is the values.
Hello, dear.
How are you?
And the append via.
This is the another.
Kind of a string we have appended in the text area.
Then there is another numeric string.
We have a.
Inserted in the text, video and some sequence of characters.
So these details will be inserted inside our text area.
And whatever the font type is, styling or size will be chosen will be reflected in this text area content.
After that we have set the visibility as to now inside the public static WEIDEMANN method.
What we are doing is we are first creating the phone demo plus instance.
After that the.
We have defined the font user class, public class one user, which is extending the panel.
Inside the font user class.
What we have did is private, private font this font.
So what it is doing is it is creating a private type of font variable named as this font and a private
type of j list variables g is just style and size.
Then there is a private type of dialog variable labeled as dialog and a button which is okay button.
Now there is a text area also pdf and boolean variable as.
Okay.
Now inside the public font user parameterized constructor, we are passed the object of font with font
and said that this font is equals to read font.
After that we have initialized the area of the string named as font name inside which we have what it
is graphics environment or set local graphics environment.
So it will set the local graphics environment and get available font family names.
So inside the string font name, with the help of the graphics environment and local graphics environment
method, we will get the available font family name so it will list all the font family names in our
string added font names.
After that what we are doing is phase is it goes to new J list.
So as the first variable is a kind of list, here it is GFS variable is a kind of list.
So what you are doing is JFS is equals to new list and pass that font name list into that JFS.
After that first dot set selected indexes was two zero.
So default the first font will be selected in the list.
After that, we have added phase dot, added action add list, selection list.
So for the list, we have added the selection list now and inside which we have created the instance
of the selection list and we have defined the method public void value changed with the list selection
event eve and inside which we have defined for set font or create font.
So it will be creating a font on the basis of the font which we will be selecting.
After that, we have defined another string.
A string array as font styles.
Those these font styles will be a regular italic, bold or bold italic.
So this could be the font styles.
After that, there is a J style list in which a new j list.
So we have parsed string array for font styles and then we have set the select index as zero.
So at first the regular select regular type of the styles will be selected for the font.
Then similarly we have defined the ad list selection Lesnar and for the style list as well and define
the public void value change the method with the list selection event.
And what we are doing is we are setting the font by create font method.
So this will also set the font whatever the changes will be happen happening in our text area.
After that, we have defined a string array of font sizes and its size will be 13.
We have iterated over those 30 sites with the help of the for loop and iterating variable as j.
After that we have installed the string ten plus J and multiplied by two.
What it is doing is it will show the size like ten, 12, 14, like in this manner as there is no odd
sizes for the fonts.
So after that what we are doing is j size new j list font sizes.
So this will pass the create a list with the help of the string area of the font sizes.
Then we will have selecting the default index at zero.
So at first the size will be of ten, font size will be ten.
After that.
What we are doing is we are adding a list, a selection listener and defining the method.
Value changed and then passing the selection event and inside which we will set the font with the help
of create font method.
Now we have defined another panel and set its layout as new grid layout one, comma three.
After that, we have defined the added some of the labels like font j label dot center font style J,
label dot center and size J Label or center.
So these labels have been added into that panel.
Now, we have also added the list in our panel.
Sorry.
We have also created a panel for the list and set its layout as grid layout and added the scroll panels
of the JFS style and sizes to that list.
So inside the list of the font family, font type and font size, we will be adding the scroll panels.
So for that purpose we have passed all the lists in the respective scroll panels and added that to our
J panel.
Now there is an okay button.
So okay button will be labeled as the OC and inside there will be also cancel button as well.
So key button adding extension to the okay button defining the action listener action performing events.
Okay.
So goes to true font chooser.
This font is close to font user does not create font, so it will initialize that is font instance to
the create font and stance and set the dialog set as well as false.
After that, for the cancel button, we have defined the action performed event and what we are doing
is setting the visibility of the dialog as false.
After that, we have defined the Japan as GB button, setting its layout as floor layout and take the
okay button to that panel and creating a dummy label and adding a cancel button to that panel as well.
After that, what we are doing is creating a text of 5.30 and the panel.
After that we are adding the scroll panel for the text area and adding that to our panel.
Then we have created a central panel as well for with the grid layout one and adding that list and text
field both to that center panel.
After that, we have defined the layout as the bottle layout, added the label panel with the bottle
layout.
North Central Panel has the bottle layout, center button layout, support for the GP button and added
new dummy labels.
Then we have set the font to this font for the text field.
And inside the text field what we are doing is we are setting these in content inside that text area.
Now we have defined the public font create font method inside which we have font to this font.
After that we want a style font plain and accessible to style or get selected index.
So we have passed the choice to the X and inside the case zero.
Then all plain will be selected.
If the case is two font italic it is bold and for the third is bold plus italic.
After that font size will be cannot enter integer passing type casted and again the size selected value
from the size and four for the name selected from the face and for the.
Create a new fund with the help of the font name, font style and font size and return that font instance.
After that, there is a show dialogue, boolean or type of method which is taking argument as parent
and the string title.
So boolean is okay equals to false after that frame owner is equals to null if parent and stands or
frames if the instance of frame is the stance of the parent.
So what we are doing here is only equals to frame parent and after that there is the owner equals to
frame swing it target and instead of the class frame, not class parent or otherwise, the dialog box
is null and the dialog don't get on or not as equals to owner.
We will be showing that new dialog is also under common, true and dialog.
Add this and after that dialog don't get room pin.
It goes to set the default button.
Okay button.
After that we will set the size for the dialog box 400 comma 325.
After that we will set the title for the dialog box and set the visibility of the dialog as true and
return the okay boolean variable.
So this is all from the our class.
That is a font choose.